Question 5.5.7. Question 7. Exam Style Questions.
Consider the function y equals x - 12square root of
x squared - 4. This question is worth 6 marks.
Sketch the graph of y. [3 marks]
Domain: x squared - 4 > 0. so x > 2 or x < negative 2.
Vertical asymptotes at x equals 2 and x equals negative 2.
Horizontal asymptotes: as x maps to plus infinity. y maps to
1; as x maps to -infinity. y maps to negative 1.
Sketch with VA at x equals plus or minus 2. HA
at y equals plus or minus 1. x-intercept at (12. 0).
Write down the x-intercept. [1 mark]
Set numerator equals 0: x - 12 equals 0 . therefore. x equals 12.
x-intercept: (12. 0)
Write down the equations of all asymptotes. [2 marks]
Vertical: x squared - 4 equals 0 . therefore.
x equals 2 and x equals negative 2.
Horizontal: y equals 1 (as x maps to plus infinity)
and y equals negative 1 (as x maps to -infinity).
VA: x equals 2. x equals negative 2.
HA: y equals 1. y equals negative 1.
IB exam tip: Functions with square root of x squared -
a in the denominator can have different horizontal asymptotes for x
maps to plus infinity vs x maps to -infinity.